- Any [[Solidity]] dev faced with the prospect of deploying an [[immutable]] smart contract knows the temptation to bake in [[admin key]] to respond to the messy real world.
  Life moves fast and predicting the future of what will be needed by a contract is chaotic and often impossible.
  That said, if we look at the state of [[defi]] today there may be many instances of ideas like "[[lending]]" and "[[AMM]]" but relatively few structural differences between contracts in each family.
  For example there's only so many ways that "put [[assets]] in a [[vault]] and mint [[shares]]" can be implemented, which is how standards like [[ERC4626]] are possible and desirable. There may be thousands of ways to [[throttle]], [[access gate]], [[reallocate]], [[mint]], [[burn]], [[shuffle]], [[attribute]], etc. the [[shares]] and [[assets]] but only a handful of reasonable implementations that look like "[[vault]]".
  In [[Rain]] the focus is on identifying the [[archetype]] of some contract like "[[escrow]]", "[[vault]]", "[[tournament]]", formalising the security and economic guarantees in [[Solidity]], but then handing the incidental details off to the [[interpreter]].
  The [[expression]] is where [[experimentation]] and [[evolution]] (death and rebirth) can happen, e.g. via [[factory]] from rapidly scripted [[expression]].
- [[Front end]] can be crafted to provide canned [[expression]] for users to [[deploy]], allowing a relatively stable set of underlying contracts to service many ideas, events and ecosystems over a longer period of time.
  [[Front end]] themselves are an example of this model, [[JavaScript]] is an interpreted language like [[Rainlang]] that runs in a [[browser]]. Many websites can share the [[browser]] logic to achieve many different things, and over time [[framework]] for certain types of websites evolve like "[[content management system]]", "[[ecommerce]]", etc. Web [[framework]] and the [[browser]] are [[decoupled]] from and don't need to know exactly what each website is doing, they often use [Inversion of Control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inversion_of_control) to hand control back to the [[domain]] for [[domain specific logic]], and retain control for general purpose [[logic]] and wheels that don't need or want to be reinvented.